dungeonCreator Notes
--------------------

Non-linearity is optimal - we want to minimize the amount of backtracking. (Ones with the largest distance between nodes on the graph should somehow provide a shortcut)


Evaluation metrics
------------------
Mission Linearity: the number of nodes on the shortest direct
path between start and end of the mission graph, divided by
nodes within the graph total. 
missionL = Number of Nodes on Shortest Path / Total Nodes in Graph

Map Linearity: a weighted scoring of each room with one or more
forward exits divided by all rooms with any forward exits: those
with a single entrance and exit (fully linear) have weight 1; those
with two forward exits have weight 0.5, and those with three
exits are considered maximally non-linear and do not contribute
to the numerator. ‘Dead ends’ (rooms with an entrance but no
forward exit) are not directly counted by this metric. In Fig. 3
this is (1 × 12 + 0.5 × 3) ÷ 15 = 0.9.
mapL = (1×SingleExits) + (0.5×DoubleExits) + (0×TripleExits) / Total Rooms with Exits

Leniency: the proportion of safe rooms within the dungeon graph
to total rooms. For the purposes of this evaluation we have
considered only local combat challenges and the final Boss node
to be ‘unsafe’, though the precise calculation of this metric is
to a degree dependent on the details of the final realisation of a
level: it is possible that any of the traversal or puzzle challenges
or even dungeon item locks could be implemented in a way that
was potentially ‘unsafe’ for the player character. In Fig. 3, this is
15 ÷ 19 = 0.789473684.
leniency =
Number of Safe Rooms / Total Rooms

Path Redundancy: the number of rooms that are present but do
not need to be visited in order to complete the level, divided by all
rooms. In these are defined as rooms that “do not eventually
lead to, or themselves contain, any reward”, and are byproducts
of possible expansions of the graph-rewriting rules used in that
system. However under the ASP formulation described in Sec. 3
these rooms are only generated as optional ‘exploration’ paths
leading to non-critical reward nodes — a comparable but not
identical concept. In Fig. 3, these are the combat challenge and
dungeon item lock blocking access to the Map reward, and the
measure is 3 ÷ 19 = 0.157894737.
redundancy = Number of Non-critical Rooms / Total Rooms